---
date: 2020-08-08
---

I've completed the Computer Science curriculum at Lambda School, and so have moved on to Labs, where I'll be creating an iOS app with two teammates for a non-profit, [EcoSoapBank](https://ecosoapbank.org). From what I've seen, it seems like a very cool organization, so I'm quite happy about that. Most of the apps I've built at Lambda School have been solo, so it's been really good for me to work on a team, as well. For both of my iOS teammates, I served as their Team Lead when they were going through the iOS curriculum (meaning I reviewed their code and assignments and helped troubleshoot issues), so it's been refreshing being on more "equal" footing with them.

I've started work on yet another side project: a meditation-related website. I'm hoping to have it up and running before the end of the year. For the time-being, I'm working on it with John Sundell's [Publish](https://github.com/JohnSundell/Publish/), a static site generator built using Swift. It's a little low on documentation at the moment so it's a bit tough to navigate, but I really love the idea and the execution seems very clean. It will just take some time to wrap my head around its way of doing things. Once I've got it more thoroughly figured out, I might write a blog about it.

Speaking of blogs (do people still even call them "blogs"?), I've been writing blog posts more regularly lately. Hopefully saying that doesn't jinx it.

I've been slowly going through my second playthrough of *The Last of Us pt. 2*. It really is a fantastic game. It's a shame that it was made under such [horrendous working conditions](https://kotaku.com/as-naughty-dog-crunches-on-the-last-of-us-ii-developer-1842289962), and that this seems to be all-too-common amongst these giant AAA games. I would gladly have this game be shorter, less polished, and less detailed if it meant that the people working on it were treated like human beings rather than disposable cogs in a pretty-game-making machine.

I haven't been reading nearly as much as I'd like to. I'm hoping that admitting that publicly will make Me-at-the-Times-I-Could-Be-Reading want to do it more.
