---
date: 2020-05-31
---

I've finished my tenure as a Team Lead at Lambda School, and am now back to being a regular student for the next few months as I finish up the coursework. Tomorrow (Monday, June 1st), I'll begin the Computer Science curriculum, to which I am eagerly looking forward. This unit is one of the main reasons I chose Lambda School over other options; most "code boot camps" stick to what's "practical" and avoid theory, which I think is a shame, as even if it doesn't show up on the job as obviously on the surface, I think if you take the lessons to heart, they can inform every single decision you make as a software developer. Working with Python will be a bit wild after spending so much time with Swift.

In the meantime, I'm still slowly chipping away at a number of projects, including the productivity app and game (using Godot game engine with my friend Simon) I mentioned last update. More to come on those when they're at a shareable place.

I'm still meditating a ton, and for the next two weekends I'll be participating in all-day meditation retreats Friday evening through Sunday evening. I'd love to talk more about how huge of an effect meditation has had on my life, but there's not really a place on this website that it fits well. I may revive the "spirit" of my old website Skeptical Spirit (though I don't like that name so much anymore), but that's a project for another day...

I've been playing *Bloodborne* once again lately; I'm currently attempting to get the platinum trophy, which has been proving rather difficult. Once I accomplish this, I'll be moving on at last. I plan to replay the *Uncharted* series and finally get to *Uncharted 4*, as well as replay *The Last of Us* in anticipation of the upcoming release of its sequel. Eventually I'll make my way back to *Dark Souls III* and *Sekiro*.

Recently there has been a wave of protests in response to the murderous violence of police officers towards black men. I feel it would be cowardly not to express my support for these protests and their message here. There's a bit of worry in my mind that some company would decide not to hire me if they saw some of my opinions, since I do not hold police, wealth, capitalism, or many aspects of the dominant tech culture in particularly high regard. If that were to happen, though, I think I would be dodging a proverbial bullet (as opposed to the literal bullets that I don't need to worry so much about due to the color of my skin). I do not want to work for a company that does not respect human life and dignity, the privacy of its customers, its employees' justice-&-equity-positive opinions, or the facts of institutional racism, patriarchy, and other forms of discrimination.
