+++
date = "2020-11-27T00:00:00Z"
title = "Now Update - November 27, 2020"

[taxonomies]
tags = [ "now", "personal", "updates",]

[extra]
comment = false
+++
It's been awhile since I last wrote an update here.

I'm currently working as a contractor at a company that specializes in vehicle recognition software. It's really interesting technology, I have a lot of autonomy in my work, and I really like the folks that I work with day to day. Naturally, given the events of the past year with regards to police behavior, I had some questions about the ethics of the software when I started. I still have some concerns, but I've been happy to see that others there share some of my concerns and have been guiding the products in what I believe to be an ethically-sound direction. That's about as much as I'm able to discuss here at the moment!

I've been picking away at some side-projects slowly. I don't think I'll be talking about them publicly until they're ready for release, as I don't want to say I'm working on something that never sees the light of day.

I recently did part of a meditation retreat. It came at a difficult time (new job, malfunctioning sump pump, some other stressful situations), but I'm glad I gave it a shot. I don't think I'll try again to do the half-retreat-half-work thing again anytime soon. I mostly just ended up feeling sort of crazy and ineffective at both activities. If I do another "remote retreat," I think I'll rent an AirBnb or something and let myself completely check out.

This was the first Thanksgiving I've ever had without my parents and sister. What a bizarre year. We made deep dish pizza, apple crisp, pumpkin pie, and some roasted veggies.

I've been watching _Game of Thrones_ for the first time. I have mixed feelings about it.

_His Dark Materials_, on the other hand, is just about everything I could have hoped for in an adaptation. They're really leaning into the weirdness of it. Lyra's world also has a really unique design to it; much more unique than the _Golden Compass_ adaptation, which was pretty run-of-the-mill steampunk. The new show of course has some of that, but also combines it with a more modern-esque brutalism that really sets it apart.

I bought a Nintendo Switch and started playing _Breath of the Wild_. I'm not very far, but I, again, have some mixed feelings. I just am not a fan of that sort of open-world game design (shared with _Assassin's Creed_, _Horizon Zero Dawn_, the recent Batman games, _Final Fantasy XV_...). I find it to be pretty boring, despite my best efforts.

_Outer Wilds_, on the other hand, completely blew my mind out of the water. It's now one of my favorite games of all time. I'm very sad that I can't find non-bootleg merch for the game.