+++
date = 2025-08-02
+++

Look at me writing another update after only two months!

Denny is now just about a year old. We got him when he was about 10 weeks, and we're not really certain of his birthday; probably makes more sense to celebrate his "gotcha" day than his birthday. He loves going to the dog park & Paws for a Beer (the local dog bar), meeting new friends (humans and animals), chewing on sticks, wrestling, tug-o-war, running in circles around the yard, and stealing things and running away from us. He hates getting baths, having the things he stole taken away, going on a walk without stopping to smell everything, and not being the center of attention.

By the way, did you know that "bully sticks" are BULL DICKS?! Because I didn't until recently. What kind of euphemism is "pizzle"?!

The honeymoon era with AI coding tools is over for now. I still use it most days, but I'm done trying to coax it into doing things when it'd be faster to do myself. For explanations, research, parallel tasks, boilerplate, debugging, and some other tasks it's great. For targeted work, it's honestly best to just do it with my own fingies.

Continuing the [Rob Burbea imaginal/soulmaking dharma rabbit-hole](https://hermesamara.org/teachings/soulmaking-dharma). I might write about it at some point, but I haven't really gotten enough of a chance to actually _practice_ with it, and I'd like to do that before I talk out of my butt about it.

But now that I think more about it... I think I do want to write a post [about Rob](https://hermesamara.org/rob-burbea) at some point. I never met him, but to say the effect he has had on my life is profound would be an enormous understatement. I'll leave more for another day... 

Oh yeah, I got engaged! Tori and I will likely be getting married sometime next year.

I'm nearing completion of one of my side project apps. I think. I've thought this before. I'll write more when I feel like a public beta is a good idea.
