---
date = 2025-09-24
---

Tori and I adopted two kittens. I went to PetSmart to pick up some supplies, and walked by the cat adoption window... and gosh, they were just so cute. Their names are Daria and Sylvie. I was planning to adopt just one of them... but looking online, there's just such a high need, with the local humane society being overwhelmed. We have the ability to care for them. So they're getting cozy and living their best lives, biting my nose and kneecap and running all over me while I try to sleep. I love them dearly. Check out [my Bluesky for some photos](https://bsky.app/profile/june.bash.pizza/post/3lzi325fgr22d).

I started writing poetry. I needed a creative outlet that was easy, some words I could throw on the page in 10 minutes and call it good. It's been very fun and freeing. I'm not worried about it being "good". I don't even really know what makes a poem good! I have a rough idea, just from having studied music; certain things carry over in different creative realms, especially with the kind of creativity I tend towards. More than anything else, just getting back in touch with that sense of creative play has been lovely. I don't have to worry about words making sense together according to "laws". It's just fiddling around and having fun.

Remember when I said I thought I was nearing completion with one of my side projects? Yeah scratch that!

I'm back on the Omnifocus train. A recent version added "planned dates" on top of due dates and defer dates. A minor game changer I thought they'd never introduce, honestly. I'm still holding out hopes for explicit task dependencies; now I feel like maybe it could actually happen!

Oh also thinking fascism is bad is terrorism now.

