## About June
{: .display-4}

With nearly a decade of programming experience, I specialize in creating bespoke UI & architecture for iOS and macOS apps in a remote work environment. I have programmed apps, games, and websites using Swift/Objective-C, HTML/CSS (+ Bootstrap, Jekyll, & Markdown), Unity & C#, Godot, Lua, Python, LOVE2D, and Max/MSP. In 2019, after many years of programming as a hobbyist, I began formally training remotely with Lambda School in software development (iOS emphasis). In less than a year, I developed a reputation for being a sharp, detailed programmer and a voracious learner, able to adapt swiftly (no pun intended) to new technologies and architectures. After internships as a Lambda School team lead and later an iOS developer with non-profit Eco-Soap Bank, I am currently working as an iOS developer at Redzone Software, in addition to various side-projects.

As a musician, I’ve composed, arranged, and performed an eclectic variety of polystylistic music for nearly two decades. I studied music composition, electroacoustic sound art, and music theory at Western Washington University under Roger Briggs, Bruce Hamilton, and Lesley Sommer, graduating magna cum laude in March 2013 with a BMus degree in Composition and in June 2015 with MMus degree in Composition. I have written music for games, short & feature-length films, dance, and performers & ensembles such as the WWU Wind Symphony, the Equus Sax Quartet, the Bellingham Chamber Music Society, Whatcom Wind Ensemble, and more. My music has been featured in films played at festivals across the US, most prominently in the cult horror films *Hunting Grounds* (*Valley of the Sasquatch* outside the US) and *The Last Laugh*.

I currently live with my middle-school-teaching, clarinet-playing wife and <a href="#cougarModal" data-toggle="modal">our cat Cougar</a> in Bellingham, WA.
